So in this first sit on our new retreat on time and timelessness, we're going to do a brief recap of some of the points we've already been exploring on this trail and then start seeing how we might let go of time altogether. And we'll be quite gentle about this. We have this ingrained sense of time running like a kind of ticker tape, actually all through our conscious awareness, often quite subliminally. 

So we need to be gentle and patient in how we approach it if we're going to be able to let it go. So coming into a comfortable seated position, checking in with yourself, remembering always that whatever we may be exploring and examining in meditation, it's also always a time of coming back home to just being you, just as you are. So let's just see if we're free of intention right now, not needing to do anything, not needing to make anything special happen. 

Can we open up to a sense of ease that's actually always here around us and within us? Can we become open to ease and let it in? Now let's see how time is showing up for us right now. Is there a sense that we're on a kind of track called time and we're moving along it? What would it be like just for now, just for a little bit, to let go of any sense of moving along a track called time, just have that notion disappear? What's it like if there's no thread of time, just kind of snaps, falls away, and there's just the experience going on right now? What would it be like if there was really nowhere else to be? No other time or place, just here and now. Can you sense the ease, the peace, the freedom of there being no time, of time falling away? Okay, so letting there be a little movement in your fingers, in your toes, open your eyes. 

We're just beginning to explore meditation free of a sense of time. Thank you so much and have a great day.
